So, that's how you can put a Job,
and its Steps into a container,
which as mentioned can be useful,
if you need full control over the environment.
Now, you can also use containers
in conjunction with GitHub Actions,
to spin up so-called service containers.
Now, we did just see how we can put a Job into a container,
and for example, run our tests inside of a container.
But no matter, if you did that or not.
So no matter, if you're using a container to run your Job in
or if you're running the Job directly on the runner itself,
you sometimes have Steps that would benefit
from having some extra service to interact with.
In a concrete example,
could be automated tests, where your code should work
with some database, that's not the production database,
because your automated tests should not accidentally,
manipulate production data.
So, these automated tests,
which we might be running as part of our Workflow,
as we're actually also doing it here,
in this example I showed you
with the test Job, where I do have this test step
that does run some automated tests that will actually,
lead to our database being queried.
Such tests should not work with production data
because they could accidentally change that data.
And even if they don't do that,
they still lead to some extra work that must be performed
by the production database server.
And you of course, don't wanna add more work
than necessary to that production database server.
And they offer as a solution,
you might use a testing database,
and that's where service containers come into play,
because you could, of course, host a testing database
that runs on some extra testing database server.
And that is what I also talked about earlier
in the course where, for example, with MongoDB Atlas,
you could of course, add an extra cluster,
that's only used by your automated tests,
and your development environment
so that you have a separation
between your database and your database server,
that's used for production.
And the database and the database server,
that's used for testing.
But of course, setting up such an extra server
is extra work.
And of course, that server might also be running at times
where it's not needed,
where you're not performing any tests.
And then you might be paying
for that testing database server.
That's why, it could be nice to actually,
run that testing database server inside of a container.
So, inside of an environment that has everything needed
by the database only whilst, your tests are running.
And which is then shut down, once your tests are finished.
And that's exactly what these
GitHub Actions service containers are all about.
They allow you to run extra services side-by-side
with your Jobs and their Steps.
So that they can be used by your Jobs and the Steps.
And you could, for example, run a database in a container,
whilst, your jobs are running
so that your Steps and your Jobs can reach out
to that database, that's running side-by-side.
And as soon as your Workflow finishes,
those service containers will also be shut down.
And therefore, these testing databases
will only be available when your Jobs are currently running.
And of course, using service containers
for running testing databases is just one example,
but a quite common and popular one.
You could use this feature for any service,
that's needed by your Jobs, though.
So, that's the idea behind this service container feature.